---
layout: post
---

Finally, after four months, I went back to take the bod-pod test again today.

Bod-pod is a method to measure how much lean mass vs fat do you have on your body. It does so by measuring the pressure difference in response to the volume change. Body fat is a better metrics than other common ones such as the Body Mass Index (BMI) or the sheer weight.  You can read more about how it works from this [link](http://ybefit.byu.edu/portals/88/documents/how%20does%20the%20bod%20pod%20work.pdf).

At first, I did not expect there would be any significant change to the last measurement. I mean, I did change a lot of my daily routine but it didn't feel drastic. I do weightlifting three times a week plus two times a week cardio sessions for the last four months. On top of that, I was eating the F45 meal plan challenge for 8 weeks. Then I start prepping my own meal after the challenge was over. Yes, I got too lazy to hit the gym every once in a while. And yes, I cheated and dine out every now and then, too. 

But the result surprised me, And in a good way! My body fat has dropped by 5%! And I gain 2 lbs of lean mass. I didn't think that was much. But the guy at the wellness center said otherwise. He told me this is a huge progress. Lean mass is very hard to gain. And I've been gaining that on top of losing weight. Quite a feat, he said. Well, who am I to disagree!

Here's a rundown of what my weekly routine looks like:

### Weightlifting

I did some research online and came across this little gem on r/fitness. it's called something, [something skull...](https://www.reddit.com/r/Fitness/wiki/phraks-gslp) it consists of 5 composite workouts:

1. pull-up (3 sets of 6)
2. bench-press (3 sets of 6)
3. barbell-row (3 sets of 6)
4. shoulder-press (3 sets of 6)
5. squat or deadlift (3 sets of 6)

I'm a novice when it comes to weightlifting. I have never done this before. It seems scary to me to do unsupervised free-weight training. But it turns out OK. As you can see, they are all 3 sets of 6 reps. In practice, it is more like 3 sets of 6 + keep going until muscle failure. I'm supposed to keep adding weight each week. But I still want a functioning body after each session. So my weight progression is slower.

### Diet

For diet, it was an interesting experiment for me. I learned about the [F45 challenge](https://f45challenge.com/) from my then girlfriend. It's an 8-week long program consisting of HIIT and meal plan. I didn't do the training part because I don't enjoy it in the past. The meal plan was OK at first. But the menu started to get repetitive after only a few weeks. So I switched to a different vendor called the [Kettlebell Kitchen](https://www.kettlebellkitchen.com/). This turns out to be a mistake. The food was even worse. My recovery rate was slower. And I didn't feel great after eating them.
And it bothered me a bit that I have to order food delivery to California all the way from New Jersey during the Winter. The cost was about the same as eating out at a restaurant in the Bay Area. 

After a while, I stopped the subscription. But I don't want to go back to dining out everyday. I have to come up with a way to keep eating healthy. I know that I should be eating more lean protein, more veggies, and less carbs and less fat. The chicken breast is your best source of protein. The problem is it tastes so bland and dry. I would not be able to stick to it if I keep eating poach/boiled/steam chicken everyday. So I did some more research on the Internet. And I decided to get myself a [sous vide stick](https://www.chefsteps.com/)!

Sous vide is like cheating for cooking. I'm not a picky eater. But boiled chicken breast is too much for me. But sous vide chicken breast is actually delicious! It's juicy. It's tasty. And it doesn't need oil to make it so. My meal prep consists of three parts: the protein, the veggies, and the carbs. The protein is usually the chicken breast like I said earlier. But I switch it up with mushroom, fish, and lean steak from times to times. For vegetables, I like blanched spinach, steamed brussel sprouts, or roasted carrots. They are all so easy to make in bulk. And they last for about four days or a week if you push it. Carbs are usually barley, steel cut oats, quinoa, sweet potatoes, and sometimes rice, or soba.

My rule of thumb when it comes to a meal is this:
1. Make sure you eat enough protein everyday. Easy rule I use is to eat protein in grams equal to your body weight in pounds. so I'm at 165 lbs and 165 grams of protein is about 3 breasts per day.

2. Eat 3 meals + 2 snacks. A meal should be ~500 kcal. And a snack should be ~300 kcal. This net me at ~2100 kcal per day. Some people will eat more on the workout day and less on the other. But I'm not some people :p (e.g. too lazy for that)

### Results

Do this for four months. And I get myself to this current stats:

---
weight: 165 lbs
---
body fat: 36 lbs
---
lean mass: 129 lbs
---

I would say this is not bad so far. I will keep my routine going like this for six more months. Then I will re-take the bod pod test again. I'm curious to see what's going to change by then.


Until next time!


